# A-design-of-self-controllable-voltage-level-and-low-swing-logic-based-low-power-11T-SRAM-cell
# Abstract
This research work introduces the design of a new low power eleven transistor static random access memory (11T SRAM) cell. In the proposed method two voltage sources are used, one connected to the bit line and the other one connected to the bit bar line in order to diminish the swing voltage at the output nodes of the bit and bit bar lines, respectively. The dynamic power dissipation is reduced by minimizing the swing voltage when the SRAM cell is in working mode. Self-controllable Voltage Level (SVL) is a technique in which PMOS transistor acts as a switch and NMOS transistors act as resistors coupled in series reduces leakage current when the transistors change its state from sleep to active (OFF to ON condition) and active to sleep (ON to OFF condition) modes. Reduction in leakage current causes the diminution in static power dissipation. The maximum voltage is supplied to the circuit during the active mode and reduced voltage is supplied during stand-by mode so that data retention difficulty is avoided. Stability of the proposed SRAM has also improved due to the reduction in swing voltage. All simulation results of power dissipation, delay, stability, transistor utilization, frequency, power delay product (PDP) and energy-delay product (EDP) of the proposed 11T SRAM cell and other existing models of SRAM cell has been carried out in 30 nm CMOS technology by using Synopsys EDA tool. 
